Figure 1: "The top row contains 4 plots, each depicting a scatterplot that uses a different point size/opacity manipulation. From the left, (1) labelled `Standard Scatterplot', a typical scatterplot with no point size or opacity manipulations, (2) labelled `Opacity Manipulation', a scatterplot in which the opacities of points are decreased as they move away from a (not pictured) regression line, (3) labelled `Size Manipulation', a scatterplot in which the sizes of points are decreased as they move away from a (not pictured) regression line, and (4) labelled `Both Manipulations', a scatterplot combining the previous 2. All 4 plots use the same data and are created using an r value of 0.6. Bottom row: 4 plots depicting the corresponding correlation estimation behaviour, with objective r on the x axis and subjective (estimated) r on the y. All feature a diagonal dotted line representing perfect estimation, and a solid line representing actual behaviour. From the left, (1), when no manipulation is present, people underestimate correlation, with this being most poor in the midrange and most accurate around r values of 0.2 and 1, (2) when opacity is manipulation, a similar behaviour, but the underestimation is less severe, (3) when size is manipulated, people are very accurate in the mid and high ranges, but overestimate at lower r values, (4) when both manipulations are employed, people overestimate all values below around 0.8, at which they are accurate."

Figure 2: "2 plots depicting the experimental items used in the main study. Both share most features: A title "Spicy Foods", a subtitle just below  “Higher consumption of plain (nonspicy) foods is associated with a higher risk of certain types of cancer.”, a y axis with "Fewer Cancer Diagnoses" at the bottom and "More Cancer Diagnoses" at the top, an x axis with "Less plain Diet" on the left and "More plain Diet" on the right", and a caption "Source: NHS England". Each scatterplot depicts the same data using an r value of 0.6. The plot on the left is standard, while on the right the sizes and opacities of points are manipulated using the techniques described in the paper."

Figure 3: "Dot plots for pre and post plot viewing ratings of strength of relatedness for standard and alternative plot conditions. Mean ratings are also plotted as points. Standard plots: strength of relatedness rated more highly pre-viewing and lower post-viewing, with the opposite being true for alternative scatterplots."

Figure 4: "Histograms illustrating the distributions of differences between ratings of strength of relatedness made pre- and post-plot viewing. Median differences are also provided as points. The median difference for standard scatterplots is plus 1, while for alternative it is plus 2."

Figure 5: "A trio of plots depicting how differences in strength of relatedness ratings change as a function of (1) graph literacy out of 30, (2) defensive confidence out of 60, and (3) statement emotionality out of 7. Separate lines are plotted on each graph for alternative and standard scatterplot presentation conditions."